# Paint 2D

**Paint 2D** is a fun, two-dimensional painting app that runs in your terminal!

Move your paintbrush around with the arrow keys, press <kbd>Space</kbd> to splat some paint down, change up the colour with keys <kbd>1</kbd>&ndash;<kbd>9</kbd>.

## Download

Download the program by viewing the [latest release](https://github.com/RandomSearch18/paint-2d/releases/latest), downloading the `.zip` file that matches your platform (e.g. `Windows x86_64` for 64-bit Windows) and extracting it. Then, simply run the executable file (it may be buried within a folder called `target`).

If you have issues, there is an alternate download link for [Paint 2D v0.1.0 for Windows x86_64.zip](https://ghostfiles.uk/files/8a6aba1fb7643441e196.zip).

## Run

Running the executable file (`paint-2d.exe` or `./paint-2d`) will open a terminal window, from which you can start drawing. If you're using macOS, you have to right-click the file and select **Open** from the context menu, to bypass Apple's restriction on running unsigned apps.

You will see an indicator for where your paintbrush is in the top-left corner. The following keyboard actions are available:

- Arrow keys: move the paintbrush around
- <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + arrow keys: move the paintbrush _faster!_
- <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Alt</kbd> + arrow keys: move the paintbrush ⚡ _even faster!_ ⚡
- <kbd>Space</kbd>: paint a single pixel
- Number keys: change the colour of your paintbrush (available colours are shown at the bottom)
- <kbd>E</kbd>: export your creation as a PNG file (saved to the current directory)
- <kbd>Q</kbd>: quit the program (<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd> can also be used)

## See also

- [Contributing guide for Paint 2D](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## License

This project is authored by RandomSearch and available under the MIT license. See the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for the license text.

### AI use disclaimer

Github Copilot has been used during development of this program, for generating small sections of lines or a small number of lines where the code is very predictable. Copilot has not been used to generate whole functions or any larger section of code.

One of the steps in the cross-compilation GitHub Action was [generated by ChatGPT](https://chatgpt.com/share/67db53bd-bb1c-8005-9ec1-d8015ddb09f8).
